# In this project, I wanted to create a model that could predict the outcome of Premier League games more accurately than the betting odds. I defined success by whether my algorithm could predict the correct outcome for the home team (win/loss/draw) more often than the outcome with the best odds of happening occurred. The first part of this project involved a tremendous amount of data cleaning. Since I already had the data for the entire 2019-20 season (up until it was suspended for COVID-19), I needed to find a way to ensure that future results were not accounted for when trying to predict a certain match. I wanted the model to behave this way so it could be used in the present to predict matches that haven’t taken place yet and accurately predict matches using data that is available at the current moment. To accomplish this, I created several cumulative variables for the stats that proved to be most effective at determining match outcome in my exploratory analysis. This included things such as xG for and against, actual goals for and against, and several other variables included in the data set. Ultimately, I ended up using the mean cumulative value of each of these variables. Once the data was clean and usable, I began to test different combinations of these variables as factors in an ordinal regression model. The ordinal regression model was meant to assign each home team a probability that they won and then assign the outcome prediction based off that chance. While undergoing this process however, there was an issue with the model which led it to never pick a match to result in a draw. Given that there were many draws in the true outcomes of the matches, this greatly impacted the accuracy of the model, and I was forced to come up with a solution. What I did was find a formula that allowed me to manually create the probability intervals that represented each outcome. After doing so, and then assessing the accuracy again, I found that the model predicted more match outcomes correctly than the most favored outcome according to the betting odds.
